okay okay so welcome everybody um this
is the Vancouver ions community
group and our speaker tonight is I'm
very excited to have Chris bash PhD back
to talk about another of his areas of
contemplation which he wrote about in
his book life cycles a study of
reincarnation reincarnation is a topic
that I'm sure people have different
ideas about either believing
disbelieving or curious based on my own
contemplation in my younger years and
subsequent personal experiences
including a past life regression in my
20s I'm in The Believer Camp Chris who
was our speaker a couple of years ago
was just um wonderful and as we've said
in our check-ins that everyone a lot of
people have read his book and been very
appreciative of the the work that he did
and and the and the work that he wrote
about Chris is a professor em Emeritus
in the department of philosophy and
religious studies at Youngstown State
University where he taught for 33 years
he's also adjunct faculty at the
California Institute of integral studies
a Meritus fellow at The Institute of
noetic Sciences on the board of the
grath Legacy training an award-winning
teacher and international speaker Chris
has written four books life cycles about
reincarnation Dark Knight early Dawn
about pioneering work in psychedelic
philosophy the living classroom and
exploration of collective fields of
Consciousness in teaching and LSD in the
mind of the universe the story of his
20-year Journey with LSD which is a
fabulous book Chris lives in Weaverville
North Carolina with his wife Christina
Hardy a professional astrologer and past
life
therapist so Chris take it away and
thank you for being here hi everybody
sure is nice nice to see you and thank
you for all of your warm greetings they
really touched my heart um and I hope we
have a lot of fun today I'm looking
forward today and because many of you
know my work I just want to show you
something which I think you'd like to
see you know in
19 in 2008 I wrote The Living classroom
I talked about FS of Consciousness the
transmission energetic transmission I
never me I never mentioned psychedelics
didn't I didn't mention anything about
my psychedelic
work uh now Sunni is bringing out that
book in a new edition so this is the new
edition just out this coming month and
it's in expensive in hardback but ebook
it's out in ebook and it'll be in
paperback in a year this is the true
edition of the living classroom this
time they gave me permission to talk
about psychedelics so this time I'm
actually saying I was a university
Professor for 20 years I was taking
these large doses of LSD in therapeutic
setting and uh this is what happened
with my students and this is the theory
of of un of classrooms and feels of
Consciousness that came out of it so
just to share that with you because this
a special joy and it it kind of deepens
the final puts the final Stitch into
bringing back together the two halves of
my life that I had to separate in order
to do the Psychedelic work in order to
stay a university professor in the world
but to do this work I had to let them
separate now they're coming back
together again late in my
life but before I published in
psychedelics I tackled what I thought
was really a really important uh
fundamental question dividing World
philosophies and that is
reincarnation if you believe this is the
only life we got you're going to go down
a certain direction if you believe we
have multiple lifetimes you're going to
go down a different direction seem to be
a fundamental thing and the amazing
thing is after I got out of graduate
school and after I started teaching and
I started to read around more I found
that we had an amazing body of evidence
that documents that this is a a true and
legitimate part of life none of my
graduate courses had taken reincarnation
seriously you know not this not the
Western religions that I had studied not
the scientific Traditions that had
displaced those traditions in my mind
and here was Ian Stevenson at University
of Virginia proving that reincarnation
is a fact of life I had to race my
entire intellectual Blackboard and start
over again because if reincarnation is a
fact of nature then we're living in a
much different Universe than I had
thought we were living in before so my
entire life has kind of been unfolding
an understanding of what it's like just
like we see we see plate tectonics now
and we see galaxies giving birth to
stars and we see planets terraforming
now there is this understanding that
reincarnation is part of how Nature has
carried forward and advanced the
learning of individuals within certain
species up to that point in time
evolution is caring for forward the
learning of entire groups forward into
more groups and more groups but
eventually there reaches a point where
individuality matures and nature has
found a way to fold individual learning
forward into
cascading uh accumulations of knowledge
and wisdom and experience okay so uh my
first sabatical I wrote life cycles and
it starts with a chapter
on the evidence for reincarnation and
then it goes on to look at say so what
if reincarnation is true what does it
say about our relationships what does it
say about family what does it say about
larger
patterns so uh so what I'd like to do
tonight is share with you this lecture
on Gathering Together the scientific
evidence for reincarnation now it turns
out I gave a good lecture on this topic
at an intern European gathering World
Congress on on Consciousness and it's 35
minutes long so what I'd like to do is
play that and let that carry the water
for taking you through the evidence I
can't say it better than I said it here
and I was younger had more energy was a
stage and it worked well and then after
35 minutes I'll catch it finish it out
and then we've got all the time
remaining for questions question and
answers okay all right so let's hope the
technology gods are with us fingers
crossed
everybody all right I hope you're seeing
what I'm
seeing which is all right large
screen and I hope the Sound
Works there we go okay
okay now if I can make
this if the most important philosophical
question one can ask in life is do we
survive the death of our body which Dr
Van loml is asking I think the second
most important question is do we live
once or do we live more than once
and it all hinges on time the problem
the significances of time as a teacher
if I give a quiz I have a right to
expect a certain performance from the
students if I give an hour exam I have a
right to expect a higher level of
performance and if I give a take-home
research paper I expect a higher level
of performance because they have more
time if this universe If This
Magnificent universe that we are in has
a
purpose then as a philosopher we can we
have to measure the purpose of the
universe proportionate to the time we
have to fulfill that
purpose if we only live one time then we
might extrapolate or estimate or
calculate the purpose of existence to
be but if we live 100 times if we live a
thousand times if we live 10,000 times
if our participation in This Magnificent
universe is truly
open-ended then we have a very different
relationship with the universe and then
we have a reason to think about the
possible purpose of existence in a
completely different framework and the
religions of the last 4,000 years have
had a tendency to not value physical
existence they've had a tendency to say
well you achieve realization you achieve
enlightenment and then you leave
Nirvana samsara you escape samsara Moka
Escape or you achieve salvation and then
you leave but that leaves the
fundamental question what is the purpose
of the universe unanswered what is the
purpose of my physical existence in the
universe but if we come back if we come
back to this life many times then we
have a different story that begins to
unfold and it doesn't I think it
I think our understanding of
reincarnation is completely incomplete
at this point just as we've begun to
understand the true depth and breadth of
the universe that we are part of
likewise when we begin to understand
that we participate we're dancing with
this universe
for extended period of time then we have
a deeper understanding of what the
universe might actually be trying to
accomplish in us and what might be our
gift to the universe in the continual
refinement and compounding of our talent
over time so what I'd like to do today
is talk about the evidence for
reincarnation and I've been thinking
about this and been in this game for a
long
time the first book I I wrote uh it was
is life cycles and notice how long ago I
wrote it it was the first book I wrote
as an academic and that is a signal of
how important I think this topic is and
that there is good critical empirical
evidence that allows us to decide this
topic if there weren't critical evidence
then it would just be a wasted exercise
and I think this evidence did not exist
50 years ago and the theologians used to
debate about reincarnation go round and
round but today we have a different body
of physical of of empirical evidence on
reincarnation that has moved the topic
from the theologians table to the
psychologist table to the the
philosopher table to the to the
psychiatrist table and that's what I'd
like to take you through some today now
when looking at the evidence for
reincarnation we can either look at go
small or go large we either look at the
detailed cases in or we look at the
larger body of
literature the Beauty and the real Joy
is in the detailed
cases but in 45 minutes I've chosen to
go large what I would really like to do
is in encourage you today to read one
book on reincarnation that you haven't
read yet and so I want to take you into
some of the literature on reincarnation
and show you some of the patterns that
are emerging in the literature and
rebirth okay ready to go let's
go 20 cases suggestive of reincarnation
by Ian
Stevenson this is a book that changed my
life because like many people when I
finished graduate school in 1978 I was
an atheistically inclined uh agnostic I
was trained in philosophy of religion
but all that training basically made me
an
atheist but when I encountered this book
right after finishing graduate school he
turned my life around because he
convinced me that there was evidence
that we live on life more than
once he is the uh okay
oh
good Sten Stevenson is the Carlson
Professor was the Carlson Professor from
the University of Virginia between 1967
and
2001 he has written 11 books on
reincarnation some of the most important
are
these cases of reincarnation type
written over a seven-year period from 73
to
84 unlearned language Languages by
children about children who have an
ability to speak a language which no one
in their family speaks no one in their
entire town speaks sometimes an ancient
language children who remember previous
lives and his last book his monum Opus a
1,00 page two volume work a study of 187
cases of children who not only have
detailed memories of their most previous
of their immediate life but actually
carry the scars in their body which
relate to the death wounds of the body
in their previous personality and that
of course really upsets academics I mean
it it's one thing to have continuity of
memory that's bad enough but to suggest
that a wound of death can actually be
transferred into the physical body of a
subsequent personality that drives my
colleagues right up a wall
but 187 cases well documented case
histories it's a magnificent
book what are we looking at with
Stephenson we're looking at cases of
children from around the world who have
detailed recall of their most immediate
recent
life they know their way around towns
that they've never been in
before they can recognize persons when
they're brought into the life place of
the previous personality they can recog
recognize persons that they have never
met
before they know the personal history
their personal history with that person
they had the appropriate emotional
responses with that person husbands for
wives children you have cases of a
5-year-old child who is showing all the
feelings of the husband of a 35y old
woman with all the emotional
responses there is one case of a child
called parad when he was reunited with
the family of the previous personality
he was very shy around the wife of the
previous personality he wouldn't
identify her until she left the room but
then he identified her and then later he
took her aside and he said two things to
her he said I've come but you've not
fixed Bindy which is the spot that
Indian women wear on their for as an
indication that they're married and he
also criticized her for wearing a white
sari instead of a colorful sari in the
tradition in India is when you become a
widow you don't wear color from the rest
of your life you wear only white
essentially this 5-year-old boy was
saying to this 35y old woman I've come
but you're acting like we you're not
married they know the inner architecture
of homes that they've never been
in they know people who owed them money
when they died and the debt had not been
collected in one case this little child
was brought back to the home of the
previous personality and the wife of the
previous personality said okay if you're
my husband where did you put the will we
couldn't find the
will the little boy walked over to a
floorboard in the kitchen pulled up the
floorboard and pulled the wheel out of
this little secret place that only he
knew about in the floor of the
kitchen cases like that drive my
philosophical colleagues at the
University right up a wall they don't
know what to do with it it's hard for
them to deny it but there it
is some patterns in the
data the average time interval between
the death of the first personality and
the birth of the second personality
Stevens finds about two and a half
years the average distance between the
life place of the first personality and
the life place of the second personality
50 miles
and these children tend to lose their
memories around the year around eight
years old when they become begin to get
into school and in a more complex social
environment they basically forget they
lose their memory so we're looking at a
a small time window from research from
about three years old to eight years old
a five minute time window to get to
these children and document their
Memories the remaining 90% forget them
by the time they're eight the remaining
10% vast majority of those forget them
when they hit puberty when they hit
puberty you know all hell breaks loose
and they forget their subtle traces of
their former
lives Stephenson asks why do these
children remember what most of us
forget and his answer is he doesn't know
we need more research it's all research
he has a
hypothesis he points out that about 60%
of these children died violently in
their previous
life the remaining 40% died either early
suddenly or with an acute sense of
unfinished business like a mother who
dies shortly after the birth of her
baby his hypothesis is maybe there's
something about the trauma of being
wrenched from Life violently suddenly
with an acute sense of unfinished
business that encodes the the
Consciousness in a way that draws them
back faster than usual and closer than
usual because this time I don't have
time to give all the evidence but this
two and a half and 50 two and a half
years 50 miles is faster than the
population at large and closer to home
than the population at
large in reviewing 20 cases suggestive
of reincarnation the Journal of American
Medical Association wrote Stevenson has
painstakingly and unemotionally
collected a detailed series of cases in
which the evidence for reincarnation is
difficult to understand on other
grounds two years later the Journal of
nervous and mental disease a major
psychiatric journal in the United States
P published an entire Journal devoted to
Stevenson's cases and that it was such
an unusual move that they published an
editorial to justify or to explain their
rationale and in the editorial they
wrote our decision to publish this
material recognizes the legitimacy of
his research methods and the Conformity
of his reasoning to the usual Cannons of
rational thought that's the way an
academic qualifies their
endorsement
now the philosophical institution the
Guardians of uh orthodox are not going
to let Stevenson get away with this not
without a fight and he has had his
critics and the most important critic is
a man named uh Paul Edwards and I
promise you this is the best picture I
could find of Paul Edwards
online his book Reincarnation of
Critical examination Paul Edwards was an
a major American philosopher he taught
at the new school for social research
he's best known for having been the
editorinchief of the eight volume
Encyclopedia of philosophy so he's a
major heavyweight in the philosophical
tradition he wrote a series of Articles
uh in 1986 to 87 the four-part article
uh on reincarnation and eventually he
published these articles in a later form
in this book
reincarnation and his he is the harshest
critic of Steven
he accuses Stevenson of fraud he accuses
Stevenson of not being sufficiently
rigorous in his analysis of the data he
accuses re Stephenson of not actually
verifying that he thinks that there
could have been contact between the two
families that Stephenson isn't really
critical in proving that these families
the first and second personality have
never had contact but there's actually a
deeper you know to accuse someone of
bad research and to prove bad research
is two different things and if you go
through Stephenson's arguments very
carefully I'm sorry Edward's arguments
very carefully you see that there's kind
of a deeper logic operating in his work
he says reincarnation would represent a
crucifixion of our understanding and by
our understanding he means secular
humanism the philosophical scientific
tradition the Newtonian Cartesian
philosophical tradition
he says if you believe in reincarnation
you must accept what he calls six
collateral
assumptions and these collateral
assumptions are that materialism is
false that that mind is not reducible to
brain that our identity is more than our
personality that there is a domain other
than
SpaceTime that death is an
illusion that there may be a deeper
logic to our
lives Edward says these assumptions are
surely fantastic if not indeed nonsense
and even in the absence of a
demonstration of specific flaws a
rational person will conclude either
that Stevenson's reports are seriously
defective or that his alleged facts can
be explained without bringing in
reincarnation well I won't go over
Edward's arguments more carefully
because Robert Robert almader has done
this for us Robert almader is another U
major American
philosopher he is professor ameritus at
Georgia State University he is authored
a co-authored 24
books he wrote this book in which he is
evalu valuating five categories of
evidence for survival of death the major
analysis he's doing in this book is the
debate between Stephenson and Edwards
and what he shows by analyzing edwards's
argument is that Edwards does not refute
Stephenson's argument what he does is
refus to even look at it seriously
because he is so convinced that it must
be false he says his argument
constitutes a blatant bit of question
begging because he always assumes
precisely what is in contention what is
in contention
is can Consciousness exist without a
brain and because he believes that
science has proven that Consciousness
can exists without a
brain therefore we know that there must
be something wrong with the
evidence Al says if you have a very
commanding argument that you C that you
cannot refute
then not to accept the argument is to
act
irrationally Stephenson's tradition
continues even though he's passed on
he's now looking from the bleacher seats
watching us in there this book by Tom
schroer old souls Tom schroer wins the
definitely wins for having the award for
having the worst cover of any book in
reincarnation
research but Tom is an interesting guy
he's a reporter he's a Pitzer
prizewinning reporter he's also one of
the editors for the Washington Post a
major American newspaper and he was
interested in whether Stephenson's
research could stand up to a critical
reporter's eye so he went with
Stephenson on one of his trips around
the world studying these small children
he looked over his shoulder and he came
away convinced as the subtitle shows
compelling evidence from children who
remember past lives convinced that this
Stephenson's methods were good the data
would stand up these children were real
this is a compelling case for
reincarnation and at the University of
Virginia Stephenson's work continues in
the person of Jim Tucker who has now
inherited Stevenson's
chair this book is a wonderful book it's
very much in the Stevenson tradition
continuing to look in detail the detail
cas
and explaining why these cases cannot be
attributed to weaker hypotheses like
superi or something like
this I might mention that Jim Tucker's
book is a lot easier to read than
Stephenson's book Stephenson writes and
thinks like a lawyer it's very good but
it's very very detailed very dry Jim
trucker brings a little more life to the
subject
matter now everything we've been looking
at so far has to do with what I would
call the evidence from spontaneous
memories just children who spontaneously
have memories of previous life but
there's another body of evidence you
have to approach it with a different
framework it's evoked memories memories
which have been evoked in some way
different techniques uh even massage can
evoke a former life memory but the most
common one that we're familiar with is
hypnotherapy some type of hypnosis the
following cases following books are
representative titles of people who have
worked in the field of past life
therapy my favorite book written by a
single therapist who has worked in the
area of past life therapy and has
thought about it a great deal is this
book by Roger
wer notice a date an earlier book other
lives other cells started as a yion
ended up in past life therapy doing past
life's work even though Carl Young I
don't know whether you you probably know
he himself believed in reincarnation
towards the later years of his life but
he kind of kept it
quiet this is a wonderful book
intellectually totally competent uh a
wonderful review of detailed cases and a
discussion of the implications of these
cases
past life therapy began to really
explode in the 70s 80s and there were a
lot of therapists who were concerned
that there was not a graduate school
there was no curriculum there was no
agreed upon curriculum for how to
establish the credentials for people who
wanted to do past life therapy and this
task was taken on by wiford Lucas who
wrote a magnificent two volume Anthology
which is a compendium of essays and
articles of the best of the best of the
people working at that time in past life
therapy so if you wanted to read a
single book I would
read wier's book by one author but if
you wanted to see an overview of
multiple people writing in the field I
would go to winifer Lucas's book
regression therapy a handbook for
professionals Carol Bowman
was a social worker she wasn't
interested in past life therapy she got
into it because her son started having
nightmares he started waking up with
very disturbing nightmares and she
approached him she tried to work with
him took him to therapist tried to do
conventional things but it didn't work
and then she began to do her homework
she began to look into past life therapy
began to learn the field and she began
to help her own child solve his own
trauma carried over from a previous life
that was B spontaneously bubbling up in
his
life she began to attract other people
with other children who were also having
problems and eventually she wrote this
beautiful book specifically a
therapeutic book for parents who have
children who are having traumatic memory
surface that they're having difficulty
dealing with was very successful uh very
persuasive it really made
had a lot of impact she got more
business coming in she wrote a second
book she gets the award for the second
worst title a cover on reincarnation
book returned from Heaven she's looking
specifically at relatives who have been
reincarnated within their own families
now as a philosopher that's a weaker
body of evidence right because there's
so much potential for contamination if
you're remembering your grandfather
but as a father this is interesting it's
interesting because reincarnation simply
doesn't happen where it's works well for
the researchers across great distances
and great families but inside families
is a very common occurrence and
therefore it deserves to be looked
at and next Michael
Newton two wonderful books and I must
confess us special partiality if you
want to read some if you wanted to just
pick out one or two books out of this
entire list I can't help but wish that
you would read Michael Newton's
work Michael Newton was a hypnotherapist
who got into past life therapy and he
was doing past life therapy and then he
accidentally discovered that his clients
in deep hypnosis had the ability not
only to remember their previous life but
to remember what happened to them after
they died they could
remember basically his clients were
beginning to describe the
afterlife and he thought he didn't think
this was
possible but he followed his clients a
good therapist that he is and he took
hundreds of people into deep hypnotic
regressions and he followed them when
they would go through their former life
and they would go through the death
experience he would follow them into
their memories continuing on and then he
would ask them questions and he kept
detailed notes he would ask questions
about what was this what was going on
what was it like and what he found
was regardless of what background people
came from whatever their cultural
inculturation was fundamentalist
Baptist car Marxist atheist hardcore
scientific reductionist whatever their
background was people were describing
the same fundamental reality in the
after death State they were describing a
world that had order that had structure
that had logic there was actually a
social structure it was a world in which
older Learners taught younger Learners
and it was also a world where people
made the choice to reincarnate as a
conscious careful decision it's one of
the most important choices you make if
you go to
college what courses you sign up for
that's an important choice once you sign
up for a course you're committed for the
entire semester when you incarnate what
life you take on is an important choice
and Michael Newton found that in fact in
the spiritual world the choice of what
life to take is a consciously taken
Choice made under the guidance of your
spiritual helpers and made in
cooperation with the other persons that
you're going to be incarnating with so
before we knew
before we were born when we knew more
than we know now when we were aware of
more than we are aware now we chose the
life that we are living
now that fact
alone just Bears deep
meditation two last examples not from
professionals they're from amateurs but
that's what makes them interesting the
first is this book looking for Carol
Beck and what makes it interesting is
the man who wrote it Robert snow because
Robert snow is the commander of the
homicide division of the Indianapolis
Police Department all right so he's
chief of detectives of he investigates
murders his opinion is very important it
must stand up in court he would be the
last person that you would think would
be doing research on a former life but
it happened that he kind of he did a
Hypno a hypnotic s not oriented towards
past lives he just kind of on a a lark
he did the a hypnotic session and in
this hypnotic session he was HD in the
face with a life that appeared to be his
life but it was it it scared him to
death and he literally ran out of the
room but he was curious and so he
brought all of his detective skills to
the systematic search to see if he could
identify and track down whether there
was such a person and the story of his
experience and the story of his
detective work is told in this short
book uh looking for Carol
Beckwith and
lastly this book Soul Survivor which you
may have seen it because they did some
news Clips decent news Clips on it
written by Bruce and Andrea linger about
their son James and this is a case of a
child three years old two years old who
started having spontaneous memories
and and Trauma waking up crying in the
middle of the night spontaneous memories
of appear apparently dying in World War
II as an airplane pilot over the co over
the coast of
Japan and uh his father was a
fundamentalist Baptist and he was
absolutely vehemently opposed to his son
reincarnating mother was a little more
receptive so they got involved and first
they wanted to help their son
but he got involved in the the inquiry
because he wanted to disprove
reincarnation whatever was going on with
James he wanted to disprove
reincarnation to protect his
faith in the end they tracked down this
pilot they tracked down the story they
were able to reunite James with the
people at a military reunion with the
people who had served with this pilot
and James was able to identify people on
this group The Father became convinced
that in fact his son was The
Reincarnation of this pilot and
reincarnation is
true now I'd like to just finish with
two two observations quick observations
as lunch
awaits I'd like to emphasize what we
don't know about
reincarnation the evidence for
reincarnation May be compelling however
we don't really know a lot about how
reincarnation takes place or what the
physics of rebirth is we're still
beginners in this at this point we can't
say what the soul is or what it's made
of how does it come and go from the
physical body how does it interface with
our biology and our genetic
makeup how does it encode its previous
learning into to our present body and
how does it leave with its learning
intact after we die these things right
now are beyond our present grasp I'm
sure we'll make progress in the future
but before we do we're going to have to
start we're going to have to stop
reducing mind to brain and we're going
to be have to approach this research
with a more multi-dimensional
metaphysical
cosmology and lastly I'd like to point
to a certain Paradox in the evidence and
to do this Paradox I need to go really
go back to Ian
Stevenson Stephenson's evidence I think
is the most powerful evidence for
reincarnation and his evidence liberates
our thinking at one level but it also
constricts our thinking at another
because the the strongest evidence for
reincarnation comes from lives that show
the tightest connection the tightest
correlation
but the correlation can be so tight it
can lead if you just study Stephenson's
evidence it can lead to a u a anemic an
underdeveloped vision of what life is
like when we die when most of us die in
that respect we must remember that
Stevens Skin's cases are not typical
cases these children are coming back
very fast and very close to home most
people spend much more quote time in the
Timeless condition of the spirit world
World they they have a much wider breath
of
experiences
so Stephenson's evidence liberates us to
thinking about the soul and thinking
about our lives and thinking about our
existence in a much larger expanded
framework but in order to actually fill
in that canvas in order to actually
explore more deeply what happens to us
when we die and what the larger circle
of life is like from expanding
Consciousness to contracted
Consciousness and back into expanded
Consciousness we need to look at other
bodies of data I think Michael Newton's
work is an important body of data that
gives us a larger vision and this
afternoon when I talk about psychedelic
research I'll look at another body of
data which I think can give us an
expanded vision of our life in this
universe thank you very much
okay that brings us back it brings us
back excellent I uh I sure had fun
sharing this with you it brings back a
lot of memories for me I had a good time
with this group of people uh giving this
material and now um you have to picture
yourself we've just finished this talk
I'm walking around on stage with a micro
phone waiting for the questions or
contributions you'd like to make in the
wake of this uh presentation I will just
say that my thinking of reincarnation
has evolved Beyond where it was when I
wrote life cycles I opened up a deeper
level of reincarnation thinking in dark
night early Dawn when I began to bring
in the Psychedelic experience and then
in LSD in the mind of the Universe I
give the most complete expanded
understanding of
reincarnation with the birth of the
diamond soul with the concept of the
birth of the diamond soul in history so
but where it all begins is do we have
good evidence do we have good reliable
evidence that any good hard know skeptic
should endorse whether or not they do or
not so that's some of the literature and
D has a a core bibliography that she's
going to hopefully send out to everybody
afterward so all the names and places
and books that I mentioned are there
plus more so you'll get
those so now the floor is
open yeah so if you'd like to ask a
question use the little um hand raise
thing down at the bottom let's see which
one is it
react and raise your hand and we'll call
on you Victoria you're the first
wow that was very lovely and you you
actually answered uh one of my questions
was how is your understanding evolved
but the the two two questions you talk
about um
species um reincarnation which I'd love
to hear more about that especially given
our current situation and I also would
like to understand more what you mean
when you talk in the book about
purification and detoxic ification
because that also seems very relevant
and and what does that mean for us
individually and
collectively
yeah well when I began my psychedelic
work I thought it was about personal
transformation personal even maybe
personal Enlightenment if I got lucky
but then of course what happened is that
I
dissolv the the method I was using was
so powerful it dissolved me so deeply
into Collective Consciousness and the
collective species mind again and again
again that it began to activate Dynamics
at a species level and one of the very
powerful ones way down the road was
actually experiencing it was like I was
in deep space and I was experiencing the
pulse of Life on our planet and it was a
pulse it kind of pulsed every hundred
years more or less but it was a pulse of
reincarnation and I was experiencing all
of human beings as cells in a
superorganism and this superorganism was
evolving itself through their
individual life task it was just it was
the most magnificent thing and it was
beautiful but it deepened my sense that
everything we're doing is part of a
larger Collective Dynamic an
evolutionary Dynamic everything we're
doing is every what we think of as a
private is not private everything is
wired in into a collective
network
uh and that's true of reincarnation in
general and then in specific things
about uh when I went into the ocean of
suffering the things we get involved in
in deep spiritual work some of it's our
personal some of it's former life some
of it's not personal at all some of it's
just it's larger U cleaning the Bayou
now
we know from studying mystical
autobiographies when an
individual is opening to deeper pure
more com comprehensive unitive States Of
Consciousness those States Of
Consciousness are incredibly powerful
and pure and they tend to churn up the
psyche and bring to the surface all the
things that are distorting their natural
ability to enter into this awareness so
all the bruises and all the cheaty
little things and all the little sneaky
little things and whatever whatever that
kind of mucking us up comes to the
surface well if that's and then we
process them and as we process them we
clear them out we let them go and then
our whole psychic system gets cleaner
and cleaner and we're able to not only
heal but to go into deeper spiritual
states of awareness so we know Mystics
do this we know medit s do this we know
people in Psychotherapy do this turns
out that this is also true for the
entire species the entire species
carries the wounds of its history in its
Collective memory banks the entire
species has lived all these years of war
has died and all these terrible deaths
of of of of U plague have have all the
mothers who have died in child birth
anything which isn't processed out by
the present or future life of that Soul
stream is still in this Collective
psyche and um it
still holds Humanity's back if you will
it still scares Humanity it still keeps
us
focused and if humanity is as I think it
is in the process of growing up into a
deeper
existential level of awareness it has to
offload all these things which are
keeping it small which means it has to
purify itself sweat out all the me the
first all their pain that we're carrying
as a collective all the pain and
suffering all
the vicious wounding of other being this
is coming to the surface in US
collectively and as well as individually
and if you begin to look like that then
there are certain things that you can
see happening in a culture which seem to
be maybe less as we thought of them
before as a lot of individuals
manifesting this thing and kind of more
as the pulse of a deeper process so I
think we are entering a time in history
of exponential growth but exponential
growth watch out it requires exponential
purification exponential
detoxification but this is simply how
complex systems evolve the El how how we
grow so it's it's a very exciting time
very challenging time uh time of
exponential growth but for that same
reason time that calls on the warrior
within us the Warriers within us going
to be hard times yeah well just it brief
well I imagine it can be brief so for me
this brings up so much emotion it feels
like um patriarchy needs to be within
that
I needs to be let go of and that seems
huge it feels like you kind of alluded
to the wrong leaders who knows but it
feels like it's
been brought up and so can you just give
an example of what what does that mean
that um because that's huge but minute
to minute or what what does that mean to
do we just went through this a ction
now I'm pretty sure I'm in a safe room
but if I AP I if I step on people's
political toes I apologize but we had a
choice between a man and a woman and a
particular kind of man with a particular
worldview and a woman with a particular
kind of woman a particular world view
and collectively we chose I think the
worst of the choice we chose
aggressively we chose looking backwards
we try we chose trying to hold on to
what we had instead of facing the
uncertainty of the future with vision
and courage and so this is going to hurt
us for years and years the decisions
will be made things will get
worse I don't know whether that's a bad
thing or a good thing that things are
going to get worse faster than if we had
had wisdom at the leadership level I
don't know but uh I think we're going to
find that it will be years before we
begin to recognize and recover from the
political decisions that will be
enacted over the next decade under the
influence of this election so I see it
as we have Choice points in this process
we have Choice points of whether to be
wise or whether to be
dumb I'm afraid we didn't pass this idea
this intelligence choice in our
country you know
so fingers crossed and hands
folded yeah so just so for me
individually keep a focus on the kind of
person I want to be and is is that
rather than going into judgment or grief
or outrage one of the things about
reincarnation is that it gives everybody
permission to to be at the level of
Spiritual Development that they are at
and you kind of lose the habit of
judging other people because you can't
judge other people because you don't
know what their calling was what their
challenge was you don't you just don't
know uh you don't know how old they are
they could be babies they could be
graduate students you just don't know so
it leads me to be uh kind
of respectfully distant in that way so
my focus is do the best I can help the
people who see what I see do the best
they can together I think we will make a
difference and by the way I think as we
go into hotter and hotter and I don't
mean that temperature- wise but more and
more intense destabilization in the
future the in the individual can have a
significantly greater impact this we've
learned from nonlinear systems and and
uh Chaos Theory the more intense the
more nonlinear a system as has been
giant generating in instability because
it's absorbing more and more energy it
becomes unstable at those highly
energized States individuals can have a
disproportionate impact you know
butterfly flaps at Wings it hurricane
and China so there's an interconnection
of the web as we go into this crisis
each
individual will have a greater impact
than they might have had a hundred years
ago because the whole Foundation is
going to be energized Victoria thank you
very much thank you for your good
questions thank
you Jon you're
next
okay um this has all been wonderful
everything I just i' I've so enjoyed
listening to you to that that whole
presentation that you did and Victoria's
questions and your answers and
everything and um uh past lifetimes has
been so interesting to me and I have
asked for lifetimes with certain people
I've been wounded I've been actually
killed I've been you know set out to die
all kinds of things um but right now I
am uh get I've been for the last three
or four years preparing myself to write
um quote Memoir but it's not going to be
the usual type of memoir book it'll be
in three parts and the first 56 and a
half years of course will be the first
part and that'll probably be the least
amount but I have to write that without
judgment Without Blame uh clear and um
and so on and so the things that you're
saying in terms of what we have to do
for ourselves are so it HS home to me to
me so much and I'm I'm close to that and
I have been close to that for a while
but I just had to figure it out in my
mind how to say it how to be it how to
you know present it and the second part
is all of the um all of the esoteric
studies ancient wisdom techniques all of
that kind of thing past life stuff and
everything and the third part is be now
Jon sorry to interrupt but do you have a
question
um uh
I think I I I wish I had a question I
can't I can't I'm working with all the
answers right now and
um I guess my question would be I want
to make a difference somehow I feel I
can do it with my
writing uh with the way that I write um
the things that I write about and and
it's a big big task and I am wondering
you know how do
I
hold that how do I how do I keep that
focus in spite of what's going on around
us yeah she question the life of a
writer is a is a different kind of life
isn't it it's like climb the Mountain
close the door open the windows but it's
a deep inner focus and you hold that
Focus for a long time honestly it took
me five
years at the computer to write LSD in
the mind of the universe it took me
three years just to get myself in a
position of letting people in as deeply
as I was going to let them in and then
it took decades 20 years just to gather
the experiences which I put into that
book and so it is it's it's a very
intense process and I'd encourage you
just trust your calling trust your
calling if you feel that that writing is
your calling it's your contribution it's
what you can give then Buckle
in take it as far take it as deep bring
it as deeply in forward as possible and
then share it with World throw it out
there let it go and don't have any
attachment to the results you do the
best you can you let it go where it will
go and that's a great that's that's a
great gift yeah I said a very high
intention and the other part of that is
to not be attached to the outcome that's
the other part of the intention but I
don't have a long time to do this I'm 83
years old this is something that I'm
doing okay for a legacy for my family
for one thing but also I I want I want
the world to understand so many things
that they're missing right now and of
course we just came up with a huge
challenge in this election a huge huge
challenge so this is my way of trying to
you know yeah address all of that
pressure cooker is on amazing things
come out when the pressure is on huh yes
TR that yeah if it's an I can do it I
know all of this is happening around me
but I can do this but I've got to let go
of all that other stuff good luck to you
fingers crossed looking forward to
seeing what you
produce thank
you and I did read your your life um
life cycles but if I had read this step
sooner my life would have been totally
different but I don't know that I would
have wanted it that way because part of
what I was doing all those 56 and a half
years was it was it was my purpose it
was what I had to do to move on thank
you Jan so that our next question is
Christopher there we go thank you dony
um tremendous presentation thank you uh
thank you for sharing that it's it's an
honor and I wish I I wanted to go on and
hear the rest of your lecture as well
and I don't know if you still do
in-person events or not but it it would
be wonderful so um moving forward with
the with the question so as a child I
was taught that I had sin and therefore
I had debt later in life I moved on you
know more sophisticated I thought and
then I had Karma and again debt
right so here we are again um then you
know the idea with it reincarnation and
Karma became entwined right and it was
the idea that since you have Karma um
you know you have to reincarnate to keep
working on this wheel of karma this
reincarnation so I'd be interested in
your thoughts about um is karma really
entwined with
reincarnation um certainly you know for
those who have had the experience of
meeting divine presence and source and
the incredible love um you know life
becomes a an honor um you know a
tremendous honor to be
here
so is it you know is it acts of honor
and giving back or is it is
reincarnation bound to Karma yeah and
the second part of that being um more
recently I've heard people saying our
karma is being lessened and going down
and perhaps we're you know if that
theory is correct that we're paying that
off and maybe in the future we're
reincarnating because we don't have
Karma anymore show
thoughts a lot of questions rolled into
those couple of
questions yeah
uh I think of karma uh
let me back I think Karma cause and
effect is just part of the process is
the physical Universe has a lot of cause
and effects running uh the the spiritual
conscious Universe has a lot of cause
and effect coming but the question is
how we interpret that cause and effect
pattern and I think we've been kind of
interpreting it in too narrow a way for
a long time uh in the if you listen to
um past life therapy if you read aloud
past life therapy you basically could
justifiably come away with the
conclusion that uh life is basically
about healing that we up a lot we
got a lot of fix up to do and you could
kind of have a negative perception of
what carries over from the past there's
so much mess up so much cleanup that's
needed when in fact I think most people
they pass their karmic test most of the
kids in the school systems they graduate
they go to the next level most people
pass their karmic tests and that means
we're bringing into our next life not
just liabilities we're bringing in
assets we're bringing in skills we're
bringing in relationships that have
matured so if you but the people don't
go to therapist to celebrate their
victories they go to therapist to heal
their wounds so it's okay it's perfectly
okay but we just have to remember
there's a larger pattern here and so we
have to make sure that the story which
emerges is not just a story of healing
but a story of
investing uh in human development and
human growth challenging ourselves
developing Arts talented knowledge just
the enriching of the human spirit that
is certainly the larger share of what's
happening in reincarnation than simply
these these these picking over the bones
of a grudge here or Grudge there now if
you look at religion I think there's
been a similar kind of damping down in
that the religions of the last 4,000
years the axial age they reflected an
intensification of our getting access to
spiritual reality yoga
meditation uh we were just getting
deeper and deeper first takes in the
spiritual reality and if you do have a
deep experience of spiritual reality how
could you not but think we belong there
more than here somehow there's been an
accident that we got marooned here the
job is to get back to there right Christ
will come and save me from my sins I am
stuck in the mud get me back to there
I'll become enlightened I'll become
awakened so when I can awake I can go
there because who wants to be here when
you can go there okay I understand that
I feel the compassion in that but now
that we're beginning to understand how
big here
is how huge it is how old it is that we
measure it in light years and in in
distances of six million million miles a
year in one light year and we're
measuring billions of light years across
and it's so old it doesn't really make
sense to really say oh yeah and after
all of this evolutionary thrust just
after 5,000 years when we began to be
conscious just as we begin to sink down
into that consciousness which we share
with all of life and we discover oh my
God my life is one with all of life just
then we leave the system and the system
has served its purpose no I don't think
so at least what came through in my work
and I find so many people affirming it
and that is
uh it is about incarnating deeper and
deeper and deeper not just patching up
our history but incarnating the power of
Spirit incarnating Heaven into our
physical bodies Heaven into our social
relationships it's about giving birth to
this deeper Consciousness inside our
incarnations I think we're giving birth
so that the ego beautiful thing as it is
the Consciousness that holds our
lifetime is giving birth to the soul
Consciousness in the body the diamond
Soul the whole the Consciousness that
holds all of our our lifetimes not as
fragments but unified as one fused in
one when all of our lifetimes all those
thousands of years come together and
fuse into a singularity it gives birth
to a Consciousness that is more than
just an enlightened Consciousness it
gives birth to a magnitude of
Consciousness which is different it's a
100,000 year old Consciousness and that
is becoming the new operational
consciousness of humanity to get there
we have to let go of all the divisions
that we've invoked all the racism all
the political divisions all the national
divisions all the class divisions all
that stuff which we've kept used to keep
separate from each other this has got to
we got to sweat that stuff out of our
out of our pors we have to sweat it out
and I don't know how long it's going to
take I don't know how many Generations
but is it is a multigenerational task
isn't it it's a multigenerational task
where somewhere along the way we go
through gradually probably a
transformation where we do something
like the mystics do we go through a
death and rebirth we go through a
complete collapse a surrender to forces
beyond our
control we let go of
self-interest we begin to take on into
our hearts the needs of other beings in
this crisis where we will all
become refugees at one way or
another the human heart I think is going
to be opened purified touched and the
human heart that emerges from this time
in history is going to be massive
beautiful ecstatic enlightened prophetic
cist Consciousness Buddha Consciousness
Prophet Consciousness different order of
time and I think all of us knew what we
were getting into when we chose to
Incarnate in this part of the century we
chose to be part of it we chose to align
ourselves with his ccal movement not
just for our own benefit it speeds up
our Evolution but it also helps our
children helps our grandchildren through
this We're All in This Together so I
think karma is part of the web work but
here's another
thing those when we are privileged to
touch the
infinite the infinite is like Ali Ali
income free infinite is like infinite
Joy no judgment infinite capacity to
transform Karma and wrap it up and throw
it away so there's on the one hand we
learn we have to learn on the other hand
we can learn and let go much faster than
we think we can we let go these old
stupid narrow concepts of God which keep
us so imprisoned in our fear and
uncertainty let that
go I think this is an extraordinary
powerful time and I do think you're
right yeah I'll tell you Robert Monroe
his book Monro is the Monroe Institute
his book for Journeys he was taken into
the future
he thinks somewhere around mid 3000
something ad and in that future when he
looked up and saw the BAU there was no
BAU anymore there were no souls in the
intermediate state it was physical
reality purely open into the Luminosity
of diamond light and I think what that
it teaches us is that the BAU are lives
that are unresolved unfinished uh and
it's individual but also Collective I
think we are processing our former lives
we're processing our Karma we're growing
up we're facing ourselves in history and
when that happens we will be much more
transparent to the Divine intelligence
to the Divine love to the Define
information that can help us when we
have this kind of access there'll be no
technical problem that we can't solve
there'll be no social problem that we
can't heal can't solve right that's what
I think we're working
towards So yeah thank you thanks for the
great question Christopher yeah
beautiful
answer um so Janine you're the next
questioner thank
you ah thank you so much Chris um let's
see I guess maybe if I put it on gallery
then I won't feel strange
[Laughter]
um yeah thank you so much I I I actually
like I have so much in my thoughts right
now um that I'm going to try to connect
to them one is
um I said to a friend who used to
not have like spiritual expansive
connections and then her husband died
and then you know she had experience
and um she had sort of judged me before
from my experiences and um what popped
out of my mouth is one person's
experience is another person's woo woo
yeah yeah you know and so
um uh I think that's important to me
because I find myself like not wanting
to prove anything to anybody just
because I come from a different world
right
um but simply to
experience and um share when that
feels appropriate and wow that last
response one of the things that reminded
me of was having a soul retrieval at a
time that I was like at the lowest time
in my life and just completely
overwhelmed really having a hard time
functioning and in the two-day process I
went from being in that
state to so expansive so
joyful so so much
ease and so when you're talking about
where we're going you know I I'm like
I'm not going to assume that we know how
it's going to go and it it may be very
different for different people
um but things can happen really fast
yeah so Janine do you have a question um
yeah I guess I guess I was saying these
things to hear responses to them but um
one question yeah go ahead is I think
you're very much right soul retrieval
and what's happening in an historical
situation is very similar in Soul
retrieval we retrieve alienated split
off portions of our soul and to do that
we have to heal Those portions and
integrate them welcome them back into
the unity I think the same thing is
happening uh in our historical process
too we are retrieving our souls during
the whole period of history when we
thought we were Egos and we made
decisions based on our private separate
existence now we have to retrieve all
those pieces of injured and what we did
to other people so that we can now
grow into a a full manifest Soul
yeah other quick question and thank you
so much I appreciate that um I I'm
curious whether you've um looked at the
work of nim harine the unified field
physicist because I think there's some
alignment you know different worlds yet
some real
connections sounds like it doesn't it I
mean unified theory I'm up for all up
for unified theory but here's the one of
the advantages of being retired getting
old is I don't have to keep up with the
literature anymore so IIT I'm really
behind on you know the literature as
such but the you know uran lal's work
akashic feeli field Theory Chaos Theory
uh the work in fields uh yeah absolutely
yeah fertile ground great thank you so
much for all that you're sharing with us
appreciate it thank you thank you Janine
oops Norma you're you're up next what's
your question I I'm I don't exactly have
a question uh but I'm uh I I have been
studying myself getting old and
um I I'm going through a
process
and I'm losing my identity I'm not who I
was Each decade I'm a different person
and now
I'm losing my identity
and I realize I've I've been an
ego and my ego was all that
identity and now and also what you said
oh then I said where where do
people I think I'm headed maybe toward
people
lessness people and I'm wondering oh
maybe this is a question
yeah uh because what I saw when you were
describing the golden something is dust
is dust and the possibility that
humans as that I will not be human but I
will be dust dust to dust and dust to
dust or whatever it
is so that is kind of bringing that and
I do appreciate uh dropping in and
getting excited about more information
so I'll go to the library and find you
well you know Nora your experience of
getting lighter and lighter and kind of
Disappearing that that speaks to me
that's my experience too I find that the
older I get and I'm 75 now so you may
have a couple years on me but I'm right
behind you uh the thinner my arms get
and the weaker my skeleton gets it's
like it's falling off it gets soft and
it's falling off and as it falls off the
memories associated with get loose and
they can fall off and I find it much
easier to move
into egoless places than I used to just
because my my skin is wrapped a little
loose you know in my mind and I think we
get older it gets easier to step into
that in between Place uh and that's
that's that's just kind of and it just
when when we get to the very end it's a
big release and we go light to light
light that's that's what I'm feeling too
is I'm getting
lighter you know everything is getting
lighter and I'm excited about the last
breath I'm hoping I can be
conscious with my last breath you know
all my life I've been telling my
children when they're every little
little bit kids I said it's a great life
and in the end you get to
die death is something to look forward
to death is graduation death is coming
home if there if there were one thing I
wish I could give to people it's give up
your fear of death if you have a fear of
death you've got your entire metaphysics
upside down birth is when the hard stuff
begins you should mourn the child
they're beginning first grade death is
graduation death is joy and cele ation
all of our mythology that makes death
hard difficult ghosty
nonsense 99.9% of the people it's a
spontaneous into the arms of the Divine
rushing home and so if you're clear I
mean if you're really clear on what
birth is and what death
is then death is something you take into
your heart and celebrate this is a life
coming to fruition you're bringing your
soul and everything you've learned back
to your core Soul you're bringing all of
your decisions back to your core soul
and that's that's like wow that's
graduation it may not be joy and
sorrow it may not be joy and sorrow it
may be something whole yeah bigger than
that bigger than joy and S whole yeah
yeah yeah thank you you bet yeah thank
you thank you Norma um I guess it's my
turn because Paul here has a
question um my question was
um from as you've talked about and
you've talked about the word
reincarnation is
reincarnation from your perspective
strictly related to humanity on Earth
or does it uh serve um a a different
role or a greater role in the broader
Universe yeah yeah good question and you
know in my writing you know that my work
really focuses on human consciousness
and people have asked me how come you
don't get really deep into animal
Consciousness and plant Consciousness
like a lot of other shamans and whatnot
and that's a really good question
because I know there are feels of
Consciousness related to plant kingdoms
and animal kingdoms and I think the
reason is because for me Humanity
represents the greatest threat to all
life on the planet and so my work has
been really trying to work with human
consciousness in the belief that if we
can heal Humanity all the other forms of
life will be safer will be safe from us
interesting the cultures that believe in
reincarnation they all tend to agree on
one thing it doesn't begin with human
beings
so they all look to higher mamalian
forms higher life forms among the animal
kingdoms as a bridge over into uh human
consciousness so there is a sense of
learning the basics so my sense of it is
individuality is the seed kernel that
makes reincarnation possible so I don't
look at a field of grass and say hm this
a 10,000 individuals there they all
pretty much it's a collective identity
somewhere along the way these complex
Collective identities give birth to more
and more individual awareness
self-awareness in it my dog I tend to
think that my dog's pretty individuated
you know so somewhere along the way
reincarnation begins as a learning a
following a learning and following and
it begins before human beings I think
but nobody knows exactly where and
nobody knows exactly how but
it's just an organic natural
developmental process from humans and I
also think once you come to certain
thresholds there's not much point in
incarnating at a lower level general
rule of thumb once you can function as a
human being not much point in
functioning coming back as a dog because
that you're at a Quantum jump higher now
that's I don't want to make it make
rigid rules here but basically it's kind
of like college once you get can do uh
uh once you can do calculus we will not
give you a course to go back and take a
course in algebra because algebra assume
calculus assumes a knowledge of algebra
you can do it if you want but we won't
give you credit for it I think it's like
that with you know with Incarnation we
sort of go through certain developmental
stages and once you can function at that
stage then naturally you want to
function at that stage and higher that
stage and higher yeah thank you thank
you I have one more question related to
that is of all the books I've read on on
reincarnation in past lives I've not
seen one where there was a reincarnation
from or to another planet or star system
do you have anything to say about that
well I'd say why not I mean like once
you understand that the the dynamic
principles of evolution are being are
carrying themselves out playing
themselves out another Sol systems in
other galaxies and you run the numbers
it's kind of like there's got to be
there's got to be intelligent life out
there and if we can incarnate then they
can incarnate and distance is a material
and there are some people who have
conscious recall of having been a a life
form in another planet and I can't
remember her name but there's a woman
who does past life therapy and this is
her major Focus helping people who
integrate incarnations that which are
aware from another lifetime so if you do
a little digging around and I'm sorry I
just can't remember her name at present
uh so I just say sure why not I I
personally don't have conscious recall
of such though I will say I was at a a
uh spiritual Workshop uh met a person
there one of the teachers there and he
had recall of he and I and one other
person there in in another planetary
system in another Incarnation so I'd say
okay why not why not great so we have
time for one last question if anyone
unless you would like to say have a a
last say
Chris well let me just maybe draw draw
some things together and let's great uh
clearly reincarnation is not doesn't end
all your all the questions to me
reincarnation just begins a whole Rich
vein of questions it opens up
possibilities because it it relieves us
from the terrible burden of time now
when we ask ourselves what do we want to
be what do we want to become we should
be thinking in terms of 10,000 year
increments not hundred-year increments
do you want to become Beethoven do you
want to become you know a Mozart do you
want to become a great poet a great
artist now we have unlimited
time the universe wants us to develop
all the talents that are latent within
this human
form so and the diamond soul is going to
function at a much much higher level of
sensory experience Vision much more
refined intense clarified all the
physical senses it's not just an open
heart it's not just an open mind but the
entire physical body animated into
higher
orders of
self-realization the Divine is shoving
together kind of I think of it as green
reality Earth and then light pure light
spiritual reality and we're just foring
more and more and more and more into
each other until we
become Green Spiritual Beings filled
with light radiating with light it's
going to take time but the pace is
picking up and uh and I think when the
child is born when we re re succeed in
bringing this
new awakened Consciousness transformed
Consciousness into the world like every
mother and every mother they will look
at that child and we will say it was
worth it it was worth it to give birth
to This Magnificent being this Christ
child this Buddha awakened child to
humanity not just here and there not
just for some special people here and
there for all of humanity
everywhere and boy don't you know the
women have to I think women are the key
to getting us through this crisis men
have had their chance we have screwed it
up we've had our chance women have to
exercise a greater and greater share of
power to reclaim the power that they've
been denied to bring it fully forward
and Any Man worth his salt will be so
glad when that happens because we'll
know that half of us is now showing up
fully and we are stronger when we're all
together yeah and that's basically the
message of reincarnation we are
constantly growing deeper Community not
just deeper individuals we're growing
deeper Community we have Blended all the
races in our body we've Blended all the
different cultures all the different
religions in our body they're all here
we are the living Consciousness that
incorporates the future human which is
transnational transracial trans
religious we're just there's so many
false identities which are going to fall
away quickly as we make this and as we
make this transition here's one of the
sweet things my last thought to share
with
you we're going to find that 99% of the
work has already been
done we are just waking up the fedus
isn't gated in the day of Labor Labor's
been long most most of the work has
already been done it's just the last bit
the last waking up the last time
around opening up and letting this birth
take
place I think it's this is the century
it'll happen this Century it has to we
don't have time we do not have
time yeah thank you very much for giving
us such a big slice of your day and and
having this time for us to spend
together really it's such wonderful
experience to know and I hope that you
take the work and take it out among your
friends and U share the book share the
work it's a real honor thank you thank
you Chris that was that was fabulous I'm
gonna put it on gallery view and if you
want to unmute yourself and say goodbye
to Chris and everyone else thank you all
for coming this has been
fabulous um wonderful thank
you thank you so much thank you so much
thank you so much thank you Chris and
thank you
D have a beautiful rest of your day CHR
I have one question can you say your
last
name thank
Youk you